# Euclid's Lemma:

> Let p be a prime. Let a,b be two numbers and assume
  p|a*b. Then p|a and p|b.

> Let p divide a_sub1 *  a_sub2 * ... * a_subk. Then p divides one of the a_sub_n.


# Fundamental Theorem of Arithmatic

> Every number n can be written in only one way as a product of powers of primes.

## Proof:

Prove that every number can be written as a product of powers of primes.

#### Proof by Contradiction

Assume there is at least one number that cannot be written as a power of primes.
Let s be the set of all numbers which cannot baea written as a product of primes.
By hypothesis, a ia not an empty set, therefore by the WOP theory, s has the smallest
element e. e is not prime. Therefore, e is composite. e = f x g. f is less than e and
g is less than e. Therefore f and g are not elements of s. Therefore, f and g can be
written as a product of primes which means e can be written as a product of primes.

# Congruent Mod

Let m be a positive integer. We say that two integers a,b are congruent mod if and
only if

    a is congruent to b(mod m) if m|(a-b)

Let a be an integer and m be a positive integer,

    rem(a,m) is the number r such that 0 <= r < m such that m|(a-r)

Basically the remainder of a and m.

### Lemma:

a is congruent to b if and only if 

>   
    rem(a,m) = rem(b,m)

## Theorem:

> Let a,b,c be integers, m is a positive integer then:  

      a is congruent to a(mod m) for all a  

      if a is congruent to b(mod m) and b is congruent to c(mod m) then a is congruent to c(mod m)  

      if a is congruent to b(mod m) then b is congruent to a(mod m)

## Definition:

Let m be a positive integer. Define the congruence class of a mod m to be the set: 

    {x:x=a+km; k is an integer}

## Theorem:

Let me be a positive integer, a and be are integers.  
The following statements are equivalent:

1. congruence class of a mod m intersected with the congruence class of b mod m is not the empty set
2. a is congruent to b mod m
3. the congrience class of a mod m is equal to the congruence class of b mod m

### Proof:

1 implies 2. Let x be an element in the set of the intersection of the congruence class of a mod m and 
b mod m.  

    x = a+km = b+lm

therefore  

    a-b = lm-km  
    m(1-k) = a-b  
    m|(a-m) => a is congruent to b(mod m)


